{% extends "/layouts/doc.html" %}
{% macro Title string %}Collect users{% end %}
{% Article %}

# Source Connections

A source connection enables you to retrieve customer and event data from an external location, then transform and consolidate it within your **data warehouse**. Meergo supports multiple sources connections, enabling you to collect data and events from different systems.

Each source connection represents an unique external system (e.g., a CRM, website, app, or database).
Within each connection, you define actions that determine what type of data to import (user data or event data) and how it should be transformed before being stored in your company’s data warehouse.

## Add a Source Connection
> You can create a source connection from the **Meergo Admin console**, on the **Connections** page of a workspace, by clicking the **Add a new source ⊕** button. See the [documentation for specific source connectors](integrations/sources) for detailed instructions.
You can also create a source connection from the **Sources** page.

> Alternatively, you can create a source connection via the [Create connection API endpoint](/api/connections#create-connection).

## Manage Source Connections

Once a source connection is created, you can fully manage it. This includes configuring actions, monitoring performance, debugging events, and reviewing imported identities.

### Actions Subpage

- Add, edit, or remove actions linked to the source.

- If the source is of SDK type, you can link one or more event destinations to send events directly from the source - bypassing the data warehouse for real-time event delivery.

- Actions can be paused, rerun, or reconfigured at any time.

### Metrics Subpage

- Monitor metrics and logs about imported users or events.

- Filter results by date range, or, for user imports, by import action.

- View:

  - Imported Users Graph – Displays imported or failed identities.

  - Pipeline Graph – Visualizes where an import failed in the processing pipeline.

  - Error Log List – Shows detailed error reasons for failed imports.

This view helps you quickly identify issues, track performance, and optimize import processes.

### Event Debugger Subpage (SDK Sources Only)

- Inspect incoming events in real time.

- View full event payloads, headers, and delivery metadata.

- Useful for validating SDK integrations and troubleshooting event delivery.

### Identities Subpage

- Displays all identities imported from the source — the result of mapping and harmonization processes.

- For each identity, you can view:

  - Last update timestamp

  - Unique ID

  - Action used during import

This allows verification of data lineage and integrity at the identity level.

### Settings Subpage

- Contains configuration details of the source connection.

- You can:

  - *Freeze* the connection — stops data ingestion but preserves all data already imported in your data warehouse.

  - *Delete* the connection — permanently removes all data generated by this source.


Next: [Add a connection action](/add-connection-action)
