# Settings and UI

## Settings

A connector typically needs to maintain settings to operate. For example, the Google Analytics connector needs to store values for "Measurement ID" and "API Secret," so a specific data type is defined:

```go
type Settings struct {
    MeasurementID string
    APISecret     string
}
```

Defining a specific type for settings is convenient because settings are exchanged in JSON format between the connector and Chichi. Therefore, having a dedicated data structure allows for easier serialization and deserialization into JSON. For instance, the settings for an instance of the Google Analytics connector could be serialized like this:

```json
{"MeasurementID":"G-2XYZBEB6AB","APISecret":"ZuHCHFZbRBi8V7u8crWFUz"}
```

Chichi does not impose any constraints on how settings are serialized, except that they must be in JSON format.

When Chichi creates an instance of a connector, it passes the current settings through the `Settings` field and a function through the `SetSettings` field, which the connector can use to update the settings. For example, the constructor of the Google Analytics connector stores the configuration passed as an argument and the `SetSettings` function, and deserializes the settings:

```go
func New(conf *chichi.AppConfig) (*GoogleAnalytics, error) {
    c := GoogleAnalytics{conf: conf}
    if len(conf.Settings) > 0 {
        err := json.Unmarshal(conf.Settings, &c.settings)
        if err != nil {
            return nil, errors.New("cannot unmarshal settings of Google Analytics connector")
        }
    }
    return &c, nil
}
```

Later, when it needs to update the settings, it serializes them and calls the `SetSettings` function:

```go
...
settings, err := json.Marshal(s.settings)
if err != nil {
    return err
}
err = ga.conf.SetSettings(ctx, settings)
if err != nil {
    return err
}
...
```

## User Interface

If the connector requires all or part of the settings to be configurable by the user, it can define a user interface (UI) that will be integrated into Chichi's interface. Various components are available to create the interface for a connector: `Input`, `Select`, `Checkbox`, `ColorPicker`, `Radios`, `Range`, `Switch`, `KeyValue`, `FieldSet`, `AlternativeFieldSets`, `Text`, `Button`, and `Alert`.

For example, for the previous two settings of Google Analytics, the interface could be defined as follows:

```go
&chichi.UI{
    Fields: []chichi.Component{
        &chichi.Input{
			Name:        "MeasurementID",
			Label:       "Measurement ID",
			Placeholder: "G-2XYZBEB6AB",
			Type:        "text",
			MinLength:   2,
			MaxLength:   20,
			HelpText:    "Follow these instructions to get your Measurement ID: https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9539598#find-G-ID",
		},
        &chichi.Input{
			Name:        "APISecret",
			Label:       "API Secret",
			Placeholder: "ZuHCHFZbRBi8V7u8crWFUz",
			Type:        "text",
			MinLength:   1,
			MaxLength:   40,
		},
    },
	Values: values,
    Buttons: []chichi.Button{
        {Event: "save", Text: "Save", Variant: "primary"},
    },
}
```

Two `Input` components are present, "MeasurementID" and "APISecret," and a `Button` component with an event named "save." A `Button` component with the "save" event must always be present, as it ensures to Chichi that the values of the interface fields have been saved in the connector's settings.

The `Values` field, of type `[]byte`, contains the values of the interface components in JSON format. For example, `Values` could have the following value:

```go
[]byte(`{"MeasurementID":"G-2XYZBEB6AB","APISecret":"ZuHCHFZbRBi8V7u8crWFUz"}`)
```

### Serving the UI

To serve the interface to the user and respond to events generated by user interaction, the connector must implement the `ServeUI` method:

```go
ServeUI(ctx context.Context, event string, values []byte) (*chichi.UI, error)
```

- `ctx`: Context, it's never `nil`.
- `event`: Event to serve. Initially, it's an empty string.
- `values`: Values of the interface components, serialized in JSON. Initially, it's `nil`, and if not `nil`, it's always valid JSON.

Initially, when the connector's interface is rendered, Chichi calls `ServeUI` with an empty `event` and `values` equal to `nil`, and expects, if no errors occur, an interface other than `nil` in response. Clicking a button in the interface triggers the `ServeUI` method with the `event` equal to the event associated with the button and the `values` as the values of the interface fields serialized in JSON. If the method returns an interface other than `nil`, the interface is updated with the new components returned.

If the event is not among those expected, the method should return the `ErrUIEventNotExist` error. If the values passed as arguments are not valid, it should return an error of type `InvalidSettingsError`. You can use the `chichi.NewValidationError` function for this purpose.

#### Example

The following is the `ServeUI` method of the Google Analytics connector:

```go
func (ga *GoogleAnalytics) ServeUI(ctx context.Context, event string, values []byte) (*chichi.Form, *chichi.Alert, error) {

	switch event {
	case "load":
		// Load the Form.
		var s settings
		if ga.settings != nil {
			s = *ga.settings
		}
		values, _ = json.Marshal(s)
	case "save":
		// Save the settings.
		s, err := ga.ValidateSettings(ctx, values)
		if err != nil {
			return nil, nil, err
		}
		return nil, nil, ga.conf.SetSettings(ctx, s)
	default:
		return nil, nil, chichi.ErrEventNotExist
	}

	form := &chichi.Form{
		Fields: []chichi.Component{
			&chichi.Input{Name: "MeasurementID", Label: "Measurement ID", Placeholder: "G-2XYZBEB6AB", Type: "text", MinLength: 2, MaxLength: 20, HelpText: "Follow these instructions to get your Measurement ID: https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9539598#find-G-ID"},
			&chichi.Input{Name: "APISecret", Label: "API Secret", Placeholder: "ZuHCHFZbRBi8V7u8crWFUz", Type: "text", MinLength: 1, MaxLength: 40},
		},
		Values: values,
		Actions: []chichi.Action{
			{Event: "save", Text: "Save", Variant: "primary"},
		},
	}

	return form, nil, nil
}
```

Pay attention to the following:

- If `event` is an empty string, it returns the user interface.
- If `event` is `"save"`, it validates and saves the values of the interface fields in the settings using the `SetSettings` function, and returns a `nil` interface as it doesn't need to be updated.
- Before saving, the values are validated through its own method, which returns an `ErrUIEventNotExist` error if the values do not pass validation.
- If `event` is unknown, it returns the `ErrUIEventNotExist` error.
- The serialized JSON settings are directly assigned to the `Values` field of the returned interface. This is because in this case, each interface field is associated with a setting with the same name as the field.
