{% extends "/layouts/doc.html" %}
{% macro Title string %}S3 (Destination){% end %}
{% Article %}

# S3 (Destination)

The destination connector for S3 allows you to export unified users (i.e., users consolidated through identity resolution) in various file formats, such as CSV or Excel, and send them directly to S3 buckets.

S3 (Simple Storage Service) is a scalable object storage service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that allows you to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

### On this page

* [Add destination connection for S3](#add-destination-connection-for-s3)

### Add destination connection for S3

1. From the Meergo Admin console, go to **Connections > Destinations**.
2. On the **Destinations** page, click **Add a new destination ⊕**.
3. Search **S3**; you can use the search bar at the top or filter by category.
4. Click on the connection for **S3**. A panel will open on the right.
5. Click on **Add destination...**. The `Add destination connection for S3` page will appear.
6. In the **Name** field, enter a name for the destination to easily recognize it later.
7. In the **Access Key ID** field, enter your AWS access key ID.
8. In the **Secret Access Key** field, enter your AWS secret access key.
9. In the **Region** fields, select the AWS region where the S3 bucket is located.
10. In the **Bucket Name** field, enter the name of the S3 bucket where the files will be stored.
11. Click **Add**.

Once the S3 data destination is added, the **Actions** page will be displayed. Here, you can configure multiple files for export by selecting the file format, applying filters to determine which users to include, specifying the target S3 bucket, and setting a schedule for how frequently each export should occur.
