{% extends "/layouts/doc.html" %}
{% macro Title string %}S3 (Source){% end %}
{% Article %}

# S3 (Source)

The source connector for S3 allows you to import users from files stored in S3 buckets. You can unify this data as users within Meergo by importing files in various formats, such as CSV, Excel, and others.

S3 (Simple Storage Service) is a scalable object storage service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that allows you to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

### On this page

* [Add source connection for S3](#add-source-connection-for-s3)
* [Import users into the workspace's data warehouse](#import-users-into-the-workspaces-data-warehouse)

### Add source connection for S3

1. From the Meergo Admin console, go to **Connections > Sources**.
2. On the **Sources** page, click **Add a new source ⊕** .
3. Search **S3**; you can use the search bar at the top or filter by category.
4. Click on the connection for **S3**. A panel will open on the right with information about **S3**.
5. Click on **Add source**. The `Add S3 source connection` page will appear.
6. In the **Name** field, enter a name for the source to easily recognize it later.
7. In the **Access Key ID** field, enter your AWS access key ID.
8. In the **Secret Access Key** field, enter your AWS secret access key.
9. In the **Region** fields, select the AWS region where the S3 bucket is located.
10. In the **Bucket Name** field, enter the name of the S3 bucket that contains the files you wish to read.
11. Click **Add**.

Once the source connection for S3 is added, the **Actions** page will be displayed. Here, you can add an action for each file to be read using the newly added S3 data source. Configure each action with the desired settings for file format, filters for user data, and any additional processing requirements.

### Import users into the workspace's data warehouse

1. In the Meergo Admin console panel, navigate to **Connections > Sources**.
2. Click on the source connection for S3 from which you wish to import users.
3. Click **Add New Action**, then select **Import Users**.
4. From the **Format** menu, choose the file format from which you want to import users.

Continue with step 5 based on the selected file format:
* [CSV](csv#import-users-into-the-workspaces-data-warehouse)
* [Excel](excel#import-users-into-the-workspaces-data-warehouse)
* [JSON](json#import-users-into-the-workspaces-data-warehouse)
* [Parquet](parquet#import-users-into-the-workspaces-data-warehouse)
